{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Question 2
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Yin et al. paper describes experiments involving various neural architectures. Describe in your own words (one-two paragraphs, half a page max) when and why/how GRU outperformed CNN. [3 points]
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Answer 2
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \strokec2 GRUs have shown competitive performance in certain scenarios where the sequential nature of data is more critical than spatial information, which is typically the domain of convolutional neural networks (CNNs).
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \strokec2 GRUs can outperform CNNs under specific conditions. For instance, in tasks involving sequential data such as natural language processing (NLP), speech recognition, or time series analysis, where the order and context of input elements are crucial, GRUs excel due to their ability to capture dependencies across time steps efficiently. In contrast, CNNs are specifically tailored for tasks like image classification, where spatial relationships among pixels are essential for recognizing patterns.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \strokec2 Additionally, the computational efficiency of GRUs relative to CNNs can be advantageous in scenarios where model complexity and resource utilization are concerns. GRUs have a simpler architecture compared to CNNs and are generally faster to train and deploy. However, it's important to note that CNNs remain the method of choice for most image-related tasks due to their unparalleled ability to capture spatial hierarchies and patterns in images.
\f1\fs24 \
}